---
date: 2026-04-19
categories:
  - Walkthrough
authors:
  - rynfromk2l
links:
  - walkthrough/phase-2.md
  - walkthrough/appendixes/abstractions.md
---

# Phase 2 Rule Abstraction

Going through the initial rule cleanup for phase 2 went pretty smoothly this time around. I give the credit there to my categorized abstraction catalog and the fact I named them.  I did run into a problem where I hadn't updated the names of some abstractions that I changed partway through my work on phase 1 (or wrote out the name differently for the same symbols), but that was relatively minor.

I did make the choice to not make multiple sets of rules for abstractions with multiple variables (i.e. $\{x, y, z\}$).  Instead, I left it with just substituting one variable for Chi, $X$.  For of the abstractions where I had created multiple rules, I only had one variable that actually changed.  For example, $\abstraction{A_\oplus\cap B_\oplus}$ had five rules created for it, but they all only varied by the value of $y$ - $x$ was always $0$.  As such, I created one set of rules substituting $X$ for $y$, and left it at that.  As I encounter situations requiring different values of the remaining variables, I'll decide whether to account for those by substituting the other variable or by just making making another set with the another static value.

One struggle I did encounter, probably from the naming issue, was that I missed some rules along the way.  As such, I'm not exactly sure what number they originally were leading to several rule references that are like $\rule{??}$ or $\rule{51?)$.  I need to perform a test run of the walkthrough and double check the references and update those uncertainties.
