---
date: 2026-04-10
categories:
  - Walkthrough
authors:
  - rynfromk2l
links:
  - walkthrough/phase-1.md
  - walkthrough/appendixes/abstractions.md
---

# Descent into Madness...

Can I just start off by saying... I _hate_ phase 1 of this game.

Having to solve everything by static rules is so mindnumbingly tedious.  Whereas phase 0 can be completed with ten rules, I'm now up to thirty-eight, and I'm only two-thirds of the way to the level goal!  What's more, I wouldn't be surprised if I must double that number for the next level set.

## Rule Convolution

The second column of level sets can lead to some rule creep simply because you now have to account for abstractions that work the same way for both constant values and their minimum/maximum counterparts.  The third column, however, is that times ten -- well, times five in one sense and potentially times 120 depending on how many variations of "or" rules are required.

## Special-Case Rules

Still, I am mostly happy with this abstraction-library approach and the specific abstractions I've defined so far.  There's only one that seems too specific to me, $A_{A\setminus B_2}$.  I've played around with it, and I can either parameterize one region or the other, but not both.  There are a few abstractions that specifically require single-bomb regions, but I feel those are the exception to my concerns.

A solution may come to me as some point in the future, but at least it's only one special case so far.

## Abstraction Categorization

One other things I'm concerned about is how I categorize my abstractions.  Currently, I have three categories: basic, wires, and subtraction.  The problem is, the substraction category is getting quite large.

Most of them fit a pretty clear pattern - various variation of subtracting one region from another.  I can model them in a pretty clear table.  Unfortunately, that leaves the various three-region abstractions.  I feel like there _could_ be a pattern similar to the two-region abstractions, but the ones I've made so far don't seem to be following it.

I guess I'll wait and see, but I do feel I need split that category before I move beyond phase 1.
