---
date: 2026-04-06
categories:
  - General
  - Personal
authors:
  - rynfromk2l
links:
  - index.md
  - convensions.md
---

# Starting Down the Rabbit Hole

~~I've wanted to start this site for a while now.~~ No, I _have_ been starting this site for a while now. Due to a fight I've been having with my SSH keys on my computer and GitHub, I haven't been able to push updates and really deploy this site until last night. In the meantime, I've been creating and recreating my first[^1] draft of my walkthrough of Bombe for the past couple weeks. It was getting to the point of obsession - as much in how I format things as in its content.  I _was_ finally able to get the git issues fixed and deploy something, but the cost was having to start the whole repository over.  I did save a copy of what I had before, but I'm likely going to use that as reference for this next iteration.

I tend to get the most hyperfixation joy out of recording how I solve levels as an sort of math puzzle. Part of that involves using a lot of mathematic notation; I just kind of love figuring out how to describe the logic of these rules purely by math concepts. I am _not_, however, classically trained in mathematics. I was a computer science major, but my education was focused on programming and calculus. Heresy, probably, I'm sure. Nevertheless, I due love to study this stuff as a hobby and want to put it to practice. And since I am doing this as a hobby, I figure I should explain my notation someplace - both to help make sense to those who aren't familiar with it as I often find myself and to help explain what I mean when I'm using something very incorrectly.

[^1]: [Citation needed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Citation_needed)
