---
date: 2026-04-08
categories:
    - Walkthrough
authors:
    - rynfromk2l
links:
    - walkthrough/index.md
    - walkthrough/phase-0.md
    - walkthrough/appendixes/abstractions.md
---

# Doing a Lot with a Few

I have started on the walkthrough and completed "phase 0" tonight.  Going through the process again (and for maybe the fourth time overall), I'm really happy with the approach I'm taking in describing rules to create.  I'm taking an approach of observe-abstract-solidify:

1. **Observe.** Being a walkthough, the emphasis is on solving a particular level.  As such, I have a rule that I'm considering for a very specific case.
2. **Abstract.** Once I have a working "proto-rule", I look at how I can abstract away the static numeric values.  This creates a function that I can then plug values into to create a rule.
3. **Solidify.** With those to pieces, I can specify which values would go into the abstraction variables to produce a rule effectively matching the observation case(s).

It is those "solidified" rules that I actually create in the game.  I show all three parts in the walkthrough so the reader can hopefully connect what I'm seeing in the level into the rule I'm finally suggesting.

I was taking an approach like this in my last attempt at a walkthrough, but a oddly large change I made with this version is keeping a separate page for all the abstractions and naming each abstraction.  I'm trying to make the names a descriptively-dense symbolic summary of the rule.  For example, the abstration effectively defining an empty region is $A_\bot$ -- the abstraction of "false" -- and the one defining a full set is $A_\top$ - the abstraction of "true".  The abstraction of a rule for two regions where the subtraction of a region $B$ from region $A$ that's full of bombs is $A_{{A/B}_\top}$.  This both gives me something to refer to for an abstration rather than just the function itself and makes me consider precisely what it's abstrating.

Having this library of abstrations also helps me review what abstractions I've already made and reuse them rather than looking at what rule I could make, make an abstraction, and compare it to the previous rules in the walkthrough to see if I've already used that one.  It really felt like abstractions were an afterthought; whereas now, they're a starting point.

Fun facts, there are only four abstractions needed to complete the tutorial levels -- our two "definition" abstractions and their respective mappings to subtracting two regions.

$$
\begin{array}{c|cc}
    & \text{Full }(\top) & \text{Empty }(\bot) \\
    \hline
    \text{Basic} & A_\top & A_\bot \\
    \text{Subtraction }(A/B) & A_{{A/B}_\top} & A_{{A/B}_\bot}
\end{array}
$$
