---
date: 2026-04-12
categories:
  - Walkthrough
authors:
  - rynfromk2l
links:
  - walkthrough/phase-1.md
  - walkthrough/appendixes/abstractions.md
---

# Freedom!!!

I finally completed the phase 1 section last night.  I so utterly despise that part of the game because it's just repeating the same abstractions over and over again.  At least with even one variable, I can cut down the number of individual rules I have to create.

## Final Counts

I ended up with seventy-nine rules for thirty-seven abstractions. That feels _way too high_.  Granted, I did try to split up some four-region abstractions into smaller ones, but whole "hybrid" abstractions section feels... cludgey?

## Organization

One positive from completing this phase is that I was able to subdivide the abstractions page some more.  I added sections for "reductions" (turning complex regions into less complex ones) and "intersections" (identifying a clue for the intersection of regions).  This led me to deciding to use how I'm naming abstractions to help me categorize them, as all the rules in a given section should have similar symbolic names.

That led to the "substraction" category.  At first, I questioned if I should separate the proper subset rules (e.g. $A_{(A\subsetneq B)_\bot}$) from complement rules (e.g. $A_{(A_\setminus B)_\top}$).  I ended up deciding not to go that around, since they are both mirroring the same idea, subtracting one region from another; it just happens that in come cases, the region we're removing is a proper subset.

On the other hand, there were several abstractions that still felt tacked on.  Taking this symbolic categorization approach showed me why - they're hybrids!  All of them deal with some complement where one side is some product of two other regions, typically intersections (e.g $A_{((A_1\cap{B_{\leq1}})\setminus C_\geq)_\bot}$).  Those are now in their own category.
